{19}  -*- text -*- 
[0:

Wed Feb 20 03:00:03 2019 OK time for an ALIFE19 paper.  The goal is
some kind of more structured reproduction than we saw in the 2018
'cancer cells' demo.  The plan, such as it is, is

(1) to build a quasicrystal-like molecule, something like the
    generalized crystals from 2014 (like
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C6h3gvaKE7E ) and then

(2) get them to move with something like the asymmetric diffusion from
    2011 ( https://youtu.be/ykeNAmJ8pa4 ), and

(3) put them all in some C211-like bag (like 2018), for some good
    reason -- perhaps using the membrne to sense the environment and
    determine when conditions are plausible 

(4) to perform a reproduction by having each guy in the crystal twin
    and then pull apart.

[1:

Wed Feb 20 03:26:34 2019 Well but when you write it all down like that
it seems like a lot of work for three weeks to a finished paper.

[2:

Wed Feb 20 03:27:10 2019 So let's get some quick breakdown TODO to get
us started.

[3: Wed Feb 20 06:12:43 2019
DONE Quasicrystal.splat  :3] - Build a telomere-controlled quasicrystal in SPLAT, requiring

[4: DONE  :4] - Get SPLAT set up and working in this directory

Foggit let's just do that right now and then come back.  (Although I'm
tempted to say: That builds from Res. [5: Wed Feb 20 06:13:12 2019
DONE ResQX.splat :5])

:2]

:1]

:0]
[6:

Wed Feb 20 06:13:39 2019 So we currently are going for a distance 3
spacing but that really does seem pretty loose -- and folks get lost
pretty easily at the edges.  We're going to put in a C211 membrane to
help reduce edge losses, but thinking we should try a period 2
membrane.. [8:

Wed Feb 20 06:36:00 2019 And I want to go Res-controlled instead of
telomere-controlled.  But do we have any evidence C211 can really
withstand DReg?

:8]

:6]
[7:

Wed Feb 20 06:35:13 2019 Also fixed some bad error reporting in
splattr..  Nice to be able to do that a little..

:7]
[9:

Thu Feb 21 10:31:51 2019 OK, now into ../code/201902211027-c213/ and
working on the membrane more.  Sort have IM burning in a pretty
rickety ring oscillator, and want something more robust.  Also have
a general "controllable membrane permeability" feature running at a
cost of 16 bits.[10:

Thu Feb 21 10:35:47 2019 But let's make the permeability less general
and cut it down to say four bits with a hardcoded permeability table. 

:10]

Planning on ditching telomere controlled guts growth in favor of Res
contolled, using controlled permeability to turn on and off Res uptake
to modulate growth.

:9][11:

Thu Feb 21 10:38:04 2019 And what about making a 1D guts?  We do need
to get back to programmability eventually.

TODO:

 - Permeability table

 - mExport as well?

 - Push DReg away harder

 - Go for a 'standing gradient' on IM instead of a ring burn.

:11]
[12:

Thu Feb 21 11:02:28 2019 Hmm, on the permeability table, what if we
didn't store anything, but instead looked for some content on the fly
to ask if _this_ piece of membrane is open to _this_ possible import
_right now_?  Push the decision (and any associated storage cost) back
onto the content rather than pulling it forward to the membrane 'for
efficiency'.  But could we make a rule that would ever fire?

:12]
[13:

Fri Feb 22 03:37:24 2019 So we like the just-ask-QContent-on-the-fly
approach to the import decision.  It's still stigmergic, at least from
the membrane's point of view, but it's much more flexible than mere
geometry.

So, now we've moved on to ALIFE19/code/201902220336-grad/, and our
goal is to ditch the ring burn oscillator for a standing gradient
stabilizer. [14:

Sat Feb 23 07:13:52 2019 OK we made a gradient stabilizer, buuuut
given how much the membrane moves around, it's not all that stable
either.  In particular, it's to keep a single 'gradient anchor' point
alive as the membrane grows and shrinks.  You can get a relatively
durable but potentially unbounded _group_ of anchors, or you can have
a single anchor that gets killed pretty often..

[15:

Sat Feb 23 07:16:01 2019 We're thinking screw the membrane stuff for
now, and the next stop should be getting the interior goo to have a
hybrid solid/liquid' nature.  Content in 'solid' mode crystallizes
into a (bounded) side 2 square, while content in 'liquid' mode moves
in the odd phase empty spaces among the solid.

:15]

:14]

:13]
[16:

Sat Feb 23 11:44:32 2019 Moving these notes to ../code/C213/notes/ to
get into the noo! sekrit! mimburrs ownlee! repo.

:16]
[17:

Sat Feb 23 11:57:30 2019 OK.  So let's do solid crystallization first
and alone.

TODO:

 - Restart QX2 as QCyt.splat, make it a quark

 - Have HardCyt and SoftCyt as subclasses

 - Make HardCyt grow from Res, forming a side 2 square lattice

 - Define HardCyt 'support' as the number of aligned HC neighbors.
   Have HC decay back to Res if it sees IM..[18: Sat Feb 23 12:09:11
   2019 Later, later.  Just get started now  :18]

:17]
